you jake and
hi everybody
actually can you allow me to present my
or to to
share my screen here
or the host
i can help you share from my end if
I can help you share from my end if
that's okay
i think i can okay i can share as well
they just had to give me a permission
great welcome everybody as as gift
said
we're going to introduce you
to dfs lab but more importantly the
boot camp and what to expect from the
event coming up
and
inca from Stellar is also going to say a
few things about how bootcamp fits into
their
the community fund and
also you know a little bit about what to
expect from their side so here's our
agenda we'll give you kind of a quick
overview of sdf and it's something fun
little bianca and then i'll give you a
bit more about the boot camp
so just to just to kind of quickly give
you an introduction to who we are at dfs
lab we we're an early stage investor
in the african tech scene we invest very
early often at precede in startups
that are digitizing the african economy
so
we invest in a lot of marketplaces
e-commerce b2b e-commerce social
commerce
and everything along kind of the the
the value chain of commerce in in
africa and we
we have kind of a we're a very
research driven thesis based investor
and our belief is that
you know while a lot of attention is
being paid to fintech and some of the
other
areas that investors are excited about
we think the real prize is actually
using some of those tools to digitize
the economy root and branch
and go from kind of cache based
and offline to digital based and online
so you can you can tell because of that
belief you can probably understand why
you know we're very aligned with Stellar
because i think they have kind of a
because I think they have kind of a
similar
belief around you know digitizing the
economy and making finance
seamless
and online and all that so
and we're as an investor we're very
hands-on we don't call ourselves an
accelerator program because we don't do
batches with kind of a fixed curriculum
we actually focus on the individual
needs of each company but we're very
very hands-on we spend we have you
know a few folks dedicated full-time
basically to supporting our portfolio
companies and
and
we're basically there to help them
usually go from the early precede phase
to
to their first seed round that's where
we generally tend to intervene
and
we
can't say too much about it yet but
there's more coming in the partnership
area between us and Stellar
around you know how we can help support
more companies with more funding and
things like that so i i can't say too
things like that so I can't say too
much about it yet but should be some
exciting stuff coming up in the future
so
that's us we have we have team in
in nairobi that's that's gift and
also joseph who who's there as well
but we also have people in kenya and
south africa
I'm in paris steven other partners in
san francisco and we bring a whole host
of different skills
i won't go into everything but i
I won't go into everything but i
think that gives you a little bit of a
an intro to who we are as an
organization
i could do you want to take over for a
I could do you want to take over for a
sec and give us a little bit more
background on Stellar and the community
fund
sure thing yeah that makes a lot of
sense yeah so for everyone who
doesn't know me and it's neon desk my
name is ankur and I'm a program manager
at the steli development foundation
or sdf or short bar we're going to say a
lot of abbreviations today sdf scf so
just
preparing you for that and so sdf is a
non-profit organization with a
mission to create equitable access to
the global financial system and as a
non-profit we shepherd the development
and growth of Stellar which is a
decentralized open source layer one
blockchain network that connects the
world's financial infrastructure so
Stellar is really a
back end so to speak to power apps and
services where anyone can issue store
transfer and trade all sorts of assets
seller also has built-in like account
logic for creating accounts and assets
signing transactions and tracking
balances overall
like Stellar is really purposely
designed to streamline
financial services and really unlock the
world's economic potential by making
money more fluid markets more open and
people more empowered
so there is like an exterior is an
open source which means that anyone can
build whatever they desire on the
network with no application or
permission needed
and speaking of building on Stellar
i lead a program called the Stellar
I lead a program called the Stellar
community fund or scf for short the
second abbreviation
which is an open application a grant
program hosted by us that serves us
the springboard for many businesses and
developers building on Stellar to turn
their concepts into tangible products
and services based on input from the
Stellar community we've actually it's
quite an old fund like we're together
with our predecessor it's been around
since about like 2016 and has
distributed almost 200 million xlm which
is Stellar's native currency to
hundreds of seller-based projects based
on community input so that's pretty
exciting you know what's different i
know that there are many grants out
there for for blockchain so what makes
us different
three reasons so on at scf all kinds
of use cases and project scope sizes are
welcome and where other grants may
primarily focus on innovation on
traditional like services scf also funds
like d5 nfts community education
and developer tool projects also the
community is actively involved in
guiding and supporting the projects as
well as voting for the projects they
want to see earn a grant
also
fun fact scf grants have no strings
attached so this means that grant
recipients decide how to spend their
grant and don't need to pay anything
back so pretty pretty sweet i would say
back so pretty pretty sweet I would say
so saf really operates biannually in
form of rounds and right now the scf is
welcoming submissions for its 11th
iteration it's been 11 rounds already
with a total excellent pool of 8 million
so
any developer team or company building
on seller can submit to the scf and
request funding up to about like 200 a
thousand dollars worth of xlm which
depends on their project's code
aside from funding participating in scf
allows you to gather useful feedback
from the community gain traction in the
ecosystem and also
opens up unique opportunities for growth
so yeah and for the first time ever
let's let's skip let's go to the next
slide
jake
yeah for the first time ever
submissions that get selected to
participate in the scf
and
are eligible to participate in boot camp
can announce now participating sorry
can now participate in a virtual startup
bootcamp from november 1 to four
that will really like kick start their
journey on Stellar
or even if you're already in Stellar
ecosystem like help with a particular
problem that you haven't been able to
solve before with the help of experts
and facilitators from both sdf dfs lab
and the community so yeah
over the course of a few days
participants will work with these
facilitators to
find a problem storyboard a solution and
develop a rapid prototype before getting
feedback from the Stellar community
fund
from the stella community
from the Stellar community
but jake will tell you much much more
about that just so you know before
if you want to get considered for
participation submit your style based
project to the staff before september
25th and this is a little over a week
so it's really coming up so that is
the deadline before september september
25th also i saw some questions in the
25th also I saw some questions in the
in the
in the q and a
section here on the zoom so definitely
add your questions there and we'll have
a little a q a
session like right after
everything like at the end of the
session right that's all from me and
yeah jake take it away
thank you okay
yeah that that was great so
so yeah I'm gonna give you kind of an
overview of what to expect if you if you
come to this event and
we're really excited about it we we
always we've done a couple of these with
Stellar already in the past and they're
super
fun for us because we get to see
new companies who are you know often
new to Stellar they're trying to create
you know some kind of an innovation or
crack some difficult challenge in the
financial services space
and it's a very kind of a
intense interaction where we really get
to go deep in what they're trying to
build what their challenges are you know
etc we get to meet their team and all
that kind of thing and so we really like
them and i think i think the seller team
them and I think I think the seller team
does too for the same reasons you know
if you just really get to
dive in and for us it's also great that
we get to be hands-on with each company
so we're not we're not just kind of like
lecturing about you know
the future of fintech and all that kind
of stuff when you go to a normal
conference the the boot camp is really
you and your team coming and doing
work in a really intensive but
structured way with help from a whole
bunch of different people us experts
Stellar etc so
it's not it's definitely not something
you want to think about like a typical
conference or something like that it's
really you working on your product which
is you know which is what you should
be doing if you're running a
so I'm going to start with kind of
just high level you know almost like the
philosophy of a design sprint right so
some of you probably done design
sprints you know we didn't we didn't
invent them and
we won't be the last to use them
but we have kind of our own version of
the design sprint that we do
and the real idea is that you test
and prototype a solution in just five
days
and you start with
you know a problem you you you define
you know the challenge that you're
trying to overcome
and then we have kind of a step-by-step
process once you've
defined that problem
to go from there to a realistic
prototype that you can put in front of
users and get their reaction and that's
the critical thing about a sprint the
design sprints is you're trying to avoid
building an actual product which sounds
weird right like why why are we teaching
you or why are we encouraging you to
avoid building product everyone else is
telling you yeah build product that's
the most important thing
but
what's important is actually to build
product that people want and this
approach of a design sprint is a way to
fast forward into the future and say
okay
how are people reacting to this product
before we've actually built it so we
don't have to waste the time building it
if they don't react in the way we hope
and
it's a it's a great methodology
there's a few links here you can read
more about it i encourage you to do that
more about it I encourage you to do that
but that's the fundamental philosophy of
what we're trying to accomplish with
this and
and you'll be surprised how realistic a
prototype you can build
so here's here's the process now some
of you have done
you know sprints based on the sprint
book which we had to link to on the last
slide
or some of the other methodologies
this will look a little bit different
but it's okay you know a lot of the same
steps are there
and the same fundamental outcome is is
there
so
because because we kind of have limited
time and we're planning to we're
assuming that there's going to be a
large number
of participants we're going to try and
have each participant team
define the problem they're trying to
solve before you show up so that'll be
important to know is that you know spend
a little bit of time
before we start on day one
actually figuring out and defining a
problem we're going to send you some
exercises to do to make sure
that you've actually done that because
it's actually
kind of a common problem we see with
product designers and founders where
they'll say oh i know what the problem
they'll say oh I know what the problem
is but they actually haven't thought it
through in enough detail to to really
have a high resolution version of the
problem so that's what we're going to
ask you to do before before the event
starts
day one
will then be to say okay
let's take the problem that we have
map out what the sort of you know
original customer journey is
and
and think through where in that customer
journey we might want what do you sort
of current or or standard you know
industry standard customer journey and
then where in that customer journey or
that that sort of
experience do we want to intervene with
the prototype that we're creating today
right
so that's day one it's really mapping
out the problem in high level detail and
and figuring out where we want to
intervene
day two and I'm going to show you
some examples of each of these in in
in the next few slides so basically
you'll come up with a map and i'll show
you the map in a second right
day two you're gonna focus on which
solutions
you you you know you wanna use in
your intervention
and you're gonna generate actually a
whole bunch of solution ideas
you know so you kind of widen the
funnel of ideas before you then narrow
down on which which which particular one
you think is the best and that process
of widening and creating new ideas we
have a whole bunch of
well not a whole bunch but we have a few
steps
and exercises to do to make sure that
you really stimulate your creativity
and bring in you know the best ideas
from the team and make sure that you
don't jump on the first idea that comes
you know comes to mind but you actually
explore really deeply this set of ideas
space in your head that you know sort of
the set of the possible if you will
and then we have a similar set of
exercises where okay now all the team
has kind of put all the ideas out there
now we're going to narrow down
using some anonymous voting and some
ways of giving feedback that try to
avoid biasing the solution based on
who's the most convincing or who the
feedback comes from often you know
people
think that you know because the ceo
said oh i like this one then that's
said oh I like this one then that's
what we should do and at the end of the
day the ceo probably has to make the
decision but
we do think that it's better to
make sure that that everyone's kind of
perspective and thought process is kind
of treated equally in the initial part
so that you you know you kind of narrow
down the designs based on best thinking
and not on who's you know the most
senior or the most convincing you know
some people just have a great way of
putting it
but that may not be the best idea so
so so day two
is really going to be about
focusing down on okay what's what's the
sort of product approach and solution
that we want to create
the next step after that and that's
kind of end of day two going into day
three
is
first you're gonna storyboard your
your
prototype they're pretty high level of
detail
now
people always want to resist this they
you know they found their idea on day
two
they want to jump right in and build it
but we really really push back on
that it's not a good idea and
the reason it's not is because
basically
when you jump in and try to build
something you think you know what you're
building because you've got this idea in
your head but that idea doesn't have
enough detail
to actually be a coherent
feature on your product
and so what happens is you start
building you build you know part a and
part c and part f
and then you realize you gotta fill in
the other stuff and as you start to fill
in the other stuff that you weren't
thinking about you know when you just
kick the thing off
you realize that i've got to redo part a
because it doesn't fit together better
you know it didn't fit together well or
doesn't make sense now that i've thought
through part b
and you start creating kind of a
non-linear
problem to solve where now everything is
interrelated and you have to change this
when they have to change this and slows
you way down and you end up having to
often sometimes just completely restart
and do the whole thing from the
beginning right
most of you probably experience that at
some point when you're dealing with a
complex system like a product right
so what we say what we say we encourage
people to do is spend the time it only
takes a maybe two hours to really create
a detailed storyboard that says okay at
each step here's what we're going to do
right
there's going to be a button that button
is going to take you here you know it's
going to you're going to do something
you're going to put in some data you're
going to whatever you're going to do
right
all that stuff will be thought out
including
pretty high level detail on content if
there is any so if there's wording if
there's text if there's images
you can say okay we need an image here
we need to you know we need some wording
here
then you go into the then you go into
the prototyping phase you've got a
really detailed map you know that says
hey
you're going to do it's just like a
recipe that you follow and you are going
to be so much faster in building your
prototype if you've got that recipe
laid out or that storyboard so
and then in the prototyping phase
that'll be day three and it'll actually
kind of
you know go beyond day three a little
bit you'll have a bit of extra time
on day four as well
where you'll be prototyping
you will
have support from us
but in particular you have support
from the Stellar team there'll be some
engineer folks who you know know the
apis and and all the
all the ins and outs of the of all the
different seller technology
so that you know you won't get hung up
trying to read through documentation and
things like that i mean their
things like that I mean their
documentation is actually quite good of
course but
but in any case they'll be folks who can
help you you know live in person as well
and
there's gonna be the whole community and
I'm gonna get into that in a second
this is just kind of the sprint aspect
there's gonna be a kind of a whole extra
layer around all this
which is the community part of it so
once you're done with your prototype
you're gonna get in
you're gonna then test it with
with users and that's actually
something new we're doing this time if
any of you were at the previous boot
camp we didn't do that
but it's it's supposed to be a integral
part of the sprint it's very it's
actually the most important part in fact
it's it's really why you do a sprint a
design sprint in the first place
which is to
you know find out what people think and
again we're gonna have to we're gonna
have kind of an integrated
integrated process
where
people from the
community can be your user and give
you feedback on how you know how the
experience goes when they use your
product or test the feature or what have
you
and so you're we're gonna do some
workshops on how to how to do that
testing in a way that doesn't bias your
user it's very easy to bias someone
who's who's testing a
product or a feature and they're kind of
looking at you
see like
you know how do you feel when they do x
or y they don't want to hurt your
feelings if it's clear that you're the
one who built this thing you know they
don't want to say it's terrible or that
they don't like it or they give you a
bunch of really positive feedback but
it's not you know it's not real it's not
their gut it's not their real gut
reaction
so
and there's a lot of other ways you can
buy us you know by the way you
present it by the way you talk about it
by the way you know
the situation you put the person in so
we've got we're gonna we have a
workshop plan where we're gonna give you
some tools so that you know how to do
a user test session with a prototype
and how to collect the feedback and how
to organize that feedback into sort of a
useful
output so
so that's that's the basic sort of
step-by-step process of the sprint
itself
and
you know
it like i said it's it's it's a lot
it like I said it's it's it's a lot
of fun it's very kind of both draining
and energizing because it's pretty
intense
there's a lot of steps and and you you
use in your brain a lot
and you kind of kind of dump out all
your creativity and make decisions and
then build stuff it's pretty cool
and what we see is that often
within the within the within each
company
not only does it help
you know really rapidly go from
you know some particular problem
you're having with your user base or
your you know user experience or
whatever it is or you're trying to you
know improve
or if you're or if you're
fundamentally new maybe maybe you're
just trying to build a very very very
basic first version of the product if
you don't have one yet
it really you know it definitely
helps do that really quickly and in a
way that like i said is based on user
way that like I said is based on user
feedback and so
much more validated and much more likely
to result in the final product that you
built you know being useful and liked by
your users
but it's often also
a way because you spend because you're
so focused and intensively working on
your product
and you're doing it in the context of
seeing a lot of other teams do their
products think through their challenges
and solutions etc you're interacting
with a lot of people who you don't
interact with on a daily basis but who
are you know experts in this area
you know our mentors and facilitators
us the Stellar team the community
members you're gonna have some really
i think most of the time we see teams
I think most of the time we see teams
having these really interesting kind of
revelations about
their strategy their product you know
their pathway to market their
distribution
all those other things that don't
necessarily fit directly into the
storyboard that you know or the product
that you're prototyping but that fit in
around it so it's a it's a it's a really
valuable process i think and
valuable process I think and
we see a lot of companies
getting a lot of value out of it i
wanted to just kind of quickly give
some
some examples just to illustrate what i
was talking about so remember i talked
was talking about so remember I talked
about first day you draw out the pathway
the user pathway
and and then you figure you figure
out where you want to
focus and intervene so this was a
this was one from a customer who was
doing a cash in cash out
at a mobile money agent network in kenya
and
you can see kind of all the different
process steps that are going on you know
they're entering their number they're
talking to the agent and i won't go
talking to the agent and I won't go
through everything
and then the team wanted to forward on
sorry wanted to focus on these two
areas that are circled in green so that
was sort of the end of their first day
basically of sprint they came out you
know this is this is what they come up
with there's there's other steps and
other things they created
but you know this was kind of the
main final output and it basically
guides the creation of their solutions
the following days to say okay we know
we know the process that where we fit in
and we know what we want to change
that's essentially what you come out of
day one with
and what we're going to do we're still
we're still kind of
fine tuning how we're going to have the
interactions with the community members
and things like that but we are going to
we are going to find a way that you can
sort of present and show this to the
community probably via discord
and
either get feedback people may vote on
which which kind of problem
you know you know problem diagram and
problem choice that they like the best
et cetera et cetera so we're going to
have some kind of like
really cool ways where you can interact
with the Stellar community and really
get
you know even more feedback and more
ideas and more
more more sort of expert help with what
you're doing
so this is the output of day two or it's
one example anyway and what you can see
here is we got this three three pages i
think each one is supposed to be a
looks like an app screen on a phone
maybe
and
you know you're you're you're just kind
of going through a sign looks like a
sign up process right there's a sign up
button on the first page and then
there's a you know looks like there's
some marketing lingo on the second page
so it's kind of an onboarding process
right
the next one is maybe a text message
based interface so anyway you know i
i don't know exactly what this
I don't know exactly what this
storyboard was supposed to be but it was
supposed to be an onboarding process for
a savings app
and
you can also see how there's these blue
and pink dots you're probably like why
why are those all over the place
so that's part of
one of the steps in the process is
people on the team and also other people
outside of the team can
vote
on which things they like best and which
things they like
you know that they think should go into
the final version of the prototype
and that's non-bonding you know it's
kind of like a
thumbs up on facebook or claps on on
medium you know it's just kind of like
people express their opinion and that
gives you kind of this heat map of like
oh boy there's a bunch of dots over here
on the you know in some part we should
probably keep that and there's no dots
in this upright no people didn't seem to
care about that part so maybe we can cut
it out or something like that
and eventually you'll have a couple
of these because each you know there'll
be more than one of these storyboards
initially as remember i said we're going
initially as remember I said we're going
to first start with a bunch of ideas and
then narrow it down
eventually the the decider on the team
will
will they make a choice and they may
choose one storyboard or one sort of
three three page you know
thing or they might reconfigure and
mix and match you can do whatever you
want but the idea is to use this heat
map and the feedback that you've got
from the team to kind of choose okay
we're going to do this particular
idea for an onboarding or for a
transaction process or whatever you're
doing
yeah so that's the first thing that
again community is going to get involved
here too same same as before we're still
kind of fine-tuning how exactly that's
going to work but they're you're going
to be able to kind of show and get
feedback on some of this stuff and we're
going to have i think some prizes and
going to have I think some prizes and
voting on like you know best best ideas
and things like that so
so
day
three i believe will produce this
three I believe will produce this
storyboard so this is an example of
storyboard i was talking about
storyboard I was talking about
it's not super pretty
you can see
but it gets the job done so essentially
these are supposed to be a series of app
screens you know you can see the
wireframes
and in a few cases they
just photographed
hand-drawn diagrams and put them
straight in there that's totally
acceptable and cool
then they also put you know you can
see kind of the step-by-step
with the yellow sticky notes where
each one kind of says you know what's
happening at each step and
you get a little bit of the kind of
the menu options and things like that
and
you know basically it's kind of like a
transaction flow on some level
and so this is you know
doesn't have to be that you know that
you don't have tons and tons of detail
as long as you know what's happening on
each page and all the pages that you
have to build and how they kind of
interconnect to each other you know
that's that's what you need to get done
and once you have that then it's really
easy then you just
you know then you're just heads down
you're building
the other thing we usually do is
wire diagram for the transaction process
that's happening on the back end and
that's you know where
you're gonna be interfacing with
the different parts of the Stellar
system
and you're in in your own you know your
own system as well
if you have one
and so this usually helps kind of
clarify
both the information and money flow if
you know if it's a financial transaction
of some kind that's happening on the
back end not everyone needs to do one of
these but most people do it's usually a
valuable exercise doesn't take very long
but again same idea it's basically
you're trying to just map everything out
so that you go to the building mode
you're not
drawing the
you know the the
blueprint diagram
as you build at the same time right you
have the blueprint then you build
now i mentioned and alluded to some of
now I mentioned and alluded to some of
this stuff earlier but one of the
things that's really cool about this
boot camp is and we're really excited
about anyway
is we're introducing a bunch of new
features and things we haven't done
before
and
part of the idea was you know when
Stellar came to us and said hey you know
we've done smaller boot camps before we
have a lot of one-on-one
stuff
but we really want to make it so that
each company has a chance so so that a
we can bring in a lot more companies and
make it more available to the entire
sort of community fund
participants
and folks who are applying
and we want to make it so that it
interacts so that all of them get to
interact and the process is interactive
with the entire community
which is which is super cool it was a
little bit daunting i have to say i
little bit daunting I have to say i
think it was like hey guys you know go
do go do that and you're like yeah
that's gonna be complicated but actually
it turned out it was a great idea and
we're really excited that we that we did
it because now we come up with a whole
kind of a new system that we think will
do those two things a lot better and
it's gonna be a lot of fun so a few
things to expect from this new approach
one is as i've mentioned a couple times
there's gonna be help from community
members to test ideas get feedback get
advice etc and the community members are
gonna be kind of like activated and
online and available and and kind of
looking in you know on what's happening
we're like i said we're still exact
we're like I said we're still exact
mechanisms for that are still being
developed but one one thing we're trying
to do is pair
each team
with a community member that has
relevant expertise and a desire to kind
of maybe some you know passion for the
area that they're building on
and sort of pair you so you get you
get an extra person on your team to kind
of give new ideas and help move the
process along and and be just like on a
sounding board and things like that so
that should be pretty cool you get to
meet someone new from the community
another goal of this and like i said
another goal of this and like I said
you'll be showing the outputs of your
process as we go along to the community
and getting feedback
but but you also of course being at the
end kind of showing your final product
is a great way to expose what you're
doing to the broader community remember
the the scf awards
are are a choice by the community
itself not not just the the Stellar team
and so you really you know you want to
expose people to it make sure they know
what you're doing and that'll help a lot
when it comes time for the for the
voting on you know potentially on your
project
we've created a bunch of self-directed
modules and videos for each step of the
sprint process so normally in the past
basically i would go up and explain
basically I would go up and explain
everything
and then you you know you the sprint
participants would do it
and with a facilitator now we're trying
to make it so you don't need to have a
facilitator and you don't need to have
me talking to you
although we will have some points
where you know myself or somebody from
Stellar we'll we'll jump in and just
kind of talk to the whole group
but we're trying to make it a lot
more self-directed so some teams will
probably be able to go a little bit
faster some may
you know want to take more time in a
particular area and so make it a lot
better for everything for the
suspense you won't be forced to move
along at the same speed as everybody
else
we're also going to have kind of some
fun gamification quote unquote where
you know as the community sees what
people are doing
we're going to kind of create some
ways for them to react and and you know
promote certain ideas or teams id you
know products
we want it to be positive and
inclusive not you know like there's no
down voting there's only uploading
but you know and there'll be a lot of
ways in which to get recognized not not
just like you know does everyone like
this or not but like you know the most
improved or the kind of the coolest
ideas in different different kind of
categories and all that kind of stuff
and Stellar has been generous enough
to give small amount of money for cash
prizes so
some of the winners in different
categories are going to take a little
bit of cash home in your pocket it's not
not you know not tons not
it's not retirement money but you
know just a small amount to kind of like
get people's blood going a little bit
make sure everyone's engaged and
trying to put your best foot forward
we're also gonna have global time zone
coverage so basically you can do
this sprint from anywhere in the world
and we will have
facilitators available at least one
facilitator and hopefully one
technical person available at all
times basically
which should be exciting
and a lot again it'll allow us to have
companies from all over you know
entrants from all over the world who
participate
and to be a lot more participants
last time i think we had nine and
last time I think we had nine and
this time i don't know how many we're
this time I don't know how many we're
gonna have but it's looking like you
know 30 40 1950 so
so yeah it's gonna be exciting it's
gonna be it's gonna be cool there's
gonna be a lot of different ideas and
products and
cool new technologies so we're
definitely looking forward to it
so after all that
you know
this slide just kind of gives you the
very basic boil down boiled down version
of what to expect you come in with an
idea and a problem you want to solve
and you leave with a validated prototype
product and maybe some cash
so it's a really valuable experience
and if you've ever done a sprint
you'll know what i mean because almost
you'll know what I mean because almost
everybody who goes through them is like
oh I'm gonna do another one right away
and if nothing else you'll learn the
methodology and
and you'll take it home with you and you
can you can do it again so
gift I'm gonna hand it back to you
thanks everybody i don't know do we
thanks everybody I don't know do we
shoot you guys want any questions or
other questions maybe that i should
other questions maybe that I should
answer
i haven't been
I haven't been
so yeah there are actually a bunch of
questions on the q and a chats but
let's give room for
emmanuel
to share their experience as i
mentioned earlier emmanuel
was a past you know participant at
one of the bootcamps we had and you know
also one of the winners same with the
crop the cash team so they will pretty
much be sharing what their what their
experience was like
as well as maybe also give us a bit
of you know what they've been up to
since the boot camp
so yeah over to your manual
should i should i stop sharing are
should I should I stop sharing are
you guys gonna go on video so people can
see you live or
sorry gif we lost you should i stop
sorry gif we lost you should I stop
sharing
yes you can stop sharing yeah
where are you guys
okay i can go now
okay I can go now
yes you can
all right awesome thank you so much
gifts thanks so much i felt like what
gifts thanks so much I felt like what
would coffee came while he was giving
the presentation a lot of
you know not started like just how
many months by the way my name is
aristic manuel I'm the ceo and the
co-founder of link
we are building with three crossroads
premise infrastructure for africa we
are opportunity
to be part of the dfs lab and
bootcamp
probably at the beginning of the year
around april
really was really fun experience for us
i you know i told when i spoke to anchor
I you know I told when I spoke to anchor
last i was like that was the
last I was like that was the
highlight of the year for us really got
the ball rolling borrowing towards us
building products towards relieving us
going going going to market
i think with my for my team i think
I think with my for my team I think
one of the things we would
really always remember were really
stepping back really taking a breath of
the whole experience right to really
understand because when we came into the
bootcamp we had
built just a piece of stuff around on
the Stellar blockchain so we're quite
confident we're like okay you know what
we can you know skip the chase and go
straight to day three or you know the
fourth day five to them would be but
you know we had an awesome facilitator i
was really able to
walk us through day by day from the
springs we got to ask ourselves the
toughest questions from the sprints to
the crazy eights i think crazy eights
the crazy eights I think crazy eights
whenever we get crazy ate and it really
made us understand what we are building
who are building for so until today
one of the the things that we were able
to take out from the boots camp really
informs our decision even around product
deployments even around understanding ui
ux and really trying to understand okay
yeah if you have a button there
would that be a ux problem or how long
is your solution compared to maybe an
existing solution so you're really
thinking about things we went down to
marketing so for us was a really fun
experience a great one we got to learn a
lot
anything just i think it was a week yeah
anything just I think it was a week yeah
really week my team really you
know said okay this week we're really
going to put our minds in i think after
going to put our minds in I think after
the first day and we really saw how it
was but i think it lasted from 12 p.m
was but I think it lasted from 12 p.m
at 10 to 5 p.m so it can be a bit
exhausting but trust me after after
after the full week we're able to
absorb a lot out of it learn like
we felt like we even knew anything and
then from there it really was a
springboard through everything we're
able to undo today in fact after me
after that I'm just probably or two
months later who are part of the
Stellar community fund which is by the
way like you know doing something
together i would put some really awesome
together I would put some really awesome
stuff and we're winners of that too as
well so yeah so my experiences
throughout the bootcamp i would say like
throughout the bootcamp I would say like
like i said the bootcamp was a highlight
like I said the bootcamp was a highlight
for us and really was that a major
springboard to most of the things we're
able to do today we've had awesome
partnerships since after the boot camp
with
companies in financial space and other
financial spaces in crypto space in
and out of africa to really help us
enrich our mission like stella was
enrich our mission like Stellar was
beautiful because weather payments still
was built for payments and and when you
have stella helping you really solve
have Stellar helping you really solve
those difficult problems and payments in
africa and then you have the boots can
really shaken in that your idea to
really make you understand the things
you should really do
you're in the right place so yeah thank
you very much
thank you so much emmanuel that was
really really you know great a great
experience rundown
I'm sure a lot of you know other to
be participants would get you know a
really good insight on what to expect
thank you so much for also taking the
time to you know come share your
experience
so yeah over to you marvellous
okay
good day everybody
I'm marvelous aquinola a cropster crash
member and a participant of the Stellar
bootcamp around april
in crop to catch a season prospective
opportunities at the early stage
and seeing through them is one important
thing we do not joke with
the knowledge of having to integrate
into our existing platform was
mind-blowing a lot of deep thought
needed to be put in place
I'm forced to see the opportunity that
comes with it and
to see how we can mitigate the
challenges
to recommit to get the challenges of
integration into our existing platform
and also to use to use the use case
challenges considering our major targets
being mostly uneducated
the experience generally was intriguing
and challenging at the same time given
that there are a lot of there are a lot
to achieve and in a little period of
time
but i would say every time spent was
but I would say every time spent was
worth it
it was an exercise that fostered
teamwork as it presented an avenue for
us to learn and as well as to network
with other people
and one thing i admit about the old boat
and one thing I admit about the old boat
campaign is the watchword that says
get started not perfect
and trust me during the process starting
this 20 process of starting your
imperfections with made perfect and
nothing i particularly enjoyed was the
nothing I particularly enjoyed was the
structure of the bootcamp especially
when with the way we had to go from
conceptualization of a solution to the
implement implementation of what is said
of the cell solution
and it should be alive by saying we were
not faced with a bit of challenges at
the very inception of the old project
but with the help of our personal
structure
gifts and the moderator of the program
rk we were able to get answers to every
of our questions
although it is expected that every
participating member of the team
should be in a common room so as to
share ideas and be readily available for
discussion
it is also noteworthy to mention
that
there was convenience the exp
convenience experience weapon space in a
boat camp was
very great and my take on with after the
whole boots camp is that everybody's
idea is very significant
it doesn't matter how important you may
feel our ideas are it will cost us
nothing to actually share it with others
who knows it might be the spark that is
needed to light up
other people's idea
and i cannot mention how lenient
and I cannot mention how lenient
and patient and also optimistic
the project anchors
at dls
towards every individual team
so i'd like to say thank you for the
opportunity and i wish everyone aspired
opportunity and I wish everyone aspired
the very best
thank you very much
thank you so much marvelous thank you
so much for sharing your
experiences with us i see that
experiences with us I see that
some questions have already been
answered on the q a
already so if you perhaps might have
dropped your question
you can go back to the q and a
section and just read the answers i see
section and just read the answers I see
anchor went off like she went off you
know to
[Laughter]
to keep the keyboard running by
answering your questions so yeah just
feel free to go back there to check i
think we're at this stage where we
pretty much just have the floor open
for closing remarks and since you
know
a bunch of the questions has already
been answered on the q a chat so yeah
over to you jake and anka
yeah i actually
yeah I actually
thank you jake for answering i think
thank you jake for answering I think
there is a comment as i was reading
there is a comment as I was reading
through everything yeah i think there's
through everything yeah I think there's
a common thread it's like especially
like for existing or like you know that
because like scf right it's not only for
new projects that are completely new to
Stellar but it's also for those who
are already a bit further ahead or even
a bit further and are like you know
submitting a new product on Stellar for
example that they're thinking about so
jake like kind of like is like how
would the approach be different for
these different types of
can they also still like get value can
people that are existing also still get
value out of the boot camp
yeah totally and actually the boot camp
in the design square methodology works
across any
level of organization we've
we've done with unicorns who have
massive product suites that are already
you know processing billions of dollars
per year
and they still you know they have
product challenges as well they can
define a problem that they want to solve
they have
you know somewhere in their product flow
something's not working the way they
want it to work they want to
you know ideate test some new things
build a prototype of that new feature
the cool thing for companies that
already have
some version of a product built is often
you can use either screenshots or
if you've already done some prototyping
you can modify those prototypes so you
get really realistic prototypes
sometimes
being embedded in stuff that already
exists within your product and then just
test something that's new relative to
what you've already built so yeah
definitely doesn't matter what stage
you're at this is definitely useful
still even if you're further on
yeah yeah i would i would agree it's
yeah yeah I would I would agree it's
like it's just a methodology it's not
just like oh it's not just kickstarting
your product and stuff because
obviously like you cannot just like
build a whole product in a week but it's
really like singling out this like most
pressing problem that you choose to
solve in those few weeks and then you
get facilitators like that have
experience you get community like
ecosystem partners that might be able to
help you and you can get like
developers on Stellar helping helping
with answering any type of like
challenges technically that you
encounter so
yeah like another like thing that i
noticed here is that people are like oh
are you like
building a proof of concept or like an
mvp after after the like bootcamp so
jake like what do you what do you
generally see bootcamp participants walk
away with after participating in the
bootcamp
well they're usually
building a prototype and i and with the
building a prototype and I and with the
with the proof of concept on the back
end so
it's like usually kind of a design
you know some sort of design front end
and that creates a user experience
and that can be done in all kinds of
different medium you know figma power we
use powerpoint
anything you know really just depends
what you're comfortable with
or where you and and then usually
it's got a proof of concept sort of
technical integration on the back end so
that you can actually make the
the machine and the machinery that needs
to work behind the scenes kind of just
at least do the basics right now it's
not performance ready and
that kind of stuff but you're just yeah
proof of concept on the back end side so
it's a combination of those two things
and the you know the idea is that
that really helps you move you know in
only three days you've been able to test
both the validity with the customer
facing you know sort of prototype
design experience prototype and then
also test the technical validity so it's
really that's the idea is that it's very
accelerated way to be able to make a
decision as to whether that's the way
you want to go or maybe
didn't work out how you thought and you
avoid having to build a whole
you know minimum bible product before
before knowing that it's not going to
work
yeah that makes a lot of sense
I'm
I'm trying to let's see answer
everything i think we we answered most
everything I think we we answered most
of those things
let's see how many oh yeah so for the
amount of projects we are aiming about
like to see if we can get about 30 to
40 for the boot camp depending on how
many submissions we get we just have to
see usually like for an entire like
scf round we're trying to get around 50
because that's usually the maximum
amount someone can review like at all
it's already a lot trust me but for
like and that will be like you know
until the final october that 30
deadline but we're expecting to
have most of our submissions before the
boot camp because the bootcamp can
really elevate your presence in the
Stellar community fund round
yeah i mean
yeah I mean
i think i think i think that makes
I think I think I think that makes
sense is anyone if anyone has any
last-minute questions put them into the
q a now maybe we'll be able to answer
them but jake I'm gonna give the
floor to you
well
we don't not much else to cover
there's a few things here on the screen
you can see some next step stuff
there's some links and i think we're
there's some links and I think we're
going to share this
powerpoint if I'm not mistaken so but
you know definitely go read more about
the Stellar community fund
obviously if you're applying you should
read about it
but it's a really cool concept that
Stellar has come up with the whole
community fund idea so
go take a look and learn more
complete your submission before
september 25th to be considered for the
boot camp
and
plan to come and give it all if you are
participating if you're selected to
participate so
yeah that's
hopefully giving you all good sense of
what to expect and and what are the
motivations and why what you would get
out of it and why to go and
yeah i hope to see you all there
awesome bye guys
thank you emmanuel and marvelous too and
thank you to your festlab team for
participating
thank you for bringing
looking forward
hi
hi everybody